# Optimizations
When developing a web application, the JavaScript part tends to become more heavy as it progress and this put significant load on the application startup. *Code Splitting* allows the JavaScript code to be split into multiple files that will be loaded depending on the application section being used. Separating your GWTP application into logical and independent sections will provide natural points for code splitting. See [GWT Code Splitting](http://www.gwtproject.org/doc/latest/DevGuideCodeSplitting.html) for more details.

## Code Splitting
To use Code Splitting, you need a [Proxy]({{#gwtp.doc.url.proxy}}) associated to the [Presenter]({{#gwtp.doc.url.presenter}}) you want to sit behind a split point. Code Splitting is done by simply annotating your Proxy with `@ProxyCodeSplit` instead of `@ProxyStandard`.

Example of usage:

```java
@ProxyCodeSplit
interface MyProxy extends ProxyPlace<ApplicationPresenter> {
}
```

The JavaScript code will now be compiled into a new JavaScript file and be loaded from the application server only when needed.

## Code Split Bundles
*Code Split Bundles* allow you to regroup compiled JavaScript files into a bundle separated from other JavaScript files. This is useful when multiple Presenters share the same code base (i.e. Nested Presenters). To use Code Split Bundles, you need to set up your own implementation of a [ProviderBundle](http://arcbees.github.io/GWTP/javadoc/apidocs/com/gwtplatform/common/client/ProviderBundle.html). ProviderBundles can be created manually or generated by GWTP.

### Using manually set ProviderBundles
For the manual approach, the `ProxyCodeSplitBundle.bundleClass()` and `ProxyCodeSplitBundle.id()` need to be defined.

Here is an example of Code Split Bundles using manually set ProviderBundles.

```java
@ProxyCodeSplitBundle(bundleClass = MyPresenterBundle.class, id = MyPresenterBundle.ID_Object1)
interface MyProxy extends ProxyPlace<Object1> {
}
```

### Using generated ProviderBundles
If you use GWTP's generation of [ApplicationController](http://arcbees.github.io/GWTP/javadoc/apidocs/com/gwtplatform/mvp/client/ApplicationController.html), all bundles will be automatically generated for you, all that you need are string identifiers for each unique bundle. The best way to keep your bundles in order is to create an interface that identifies them.

```java
interface Bundles {
  String MAIN = "Main";
  String OTHER = "Other";
}
```

Here is an example of Code Split Bundles when using GWTP's generation feature:

```java
@ProxyCodeSplitBundle(Bundles.MAIN)
interface MyProxy extends ProxyPlace<Object1> {
}
```
