#Library Feature Overview

This document will give you a high-level tour of the major components. To jump right in, read the [Getting started][gs]
page or the javadoc.

##Components
GWTP offers the following components:

* `mvp` contains the base classes of a Model-View-Presenter framework ;
* `dispatch` simplifies the process of writing RPC by using the command pattern ;
* `crawler` is a simple server-side component that makes your web app crawlable by search engines.
* `crawler-service` is the implementation of a simple service that uses HTML unit to render AJAX pages, and is the complement to `crawler`.
* `localizer` is a collection of scripts and classes to help localization
* `annotation` is a collection of annotation processing tools that can generate boilerplate for events, actions and DTOs.

##MVP
The MVP component is the core of GWTP. It contains a collection of client-side Java classes that lets you organize
your application into a loosely connected collection of Presenter-View pairs, following [Google's recommended
approach](http://code.google.com/events/io/2009/sessions/GoogleWebToolkitBestPractices.html). For more information on
 this, see the [Getting started][gs] tutorial.

##Dispatch
The dispatch component allows your application to communicate with the server via the well-known Command design
pattern. This lets you easily address cross-cutting concerns like [Introduction to action validator][av] or undo stacks
. For the moment, this module's documentation is minimal. However, since it is a fork from the excellent [GWT Dispatch](http://code.google.com/p/gwt-dispatch/), you will find a lot of helpful information  there for background information. Don't hesitate to ask in our [Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/gwt-platform) if you have questions related to GWTP's new features.

##Crawler
The goal of the crawler module is to make your AJAX application crawlable from any search engines supporting [Google's proposed approach](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PDuhR18-EdM). It uses a simple filter to access the crawler service described below. The crawler filter can be used on AppEngine or with any other servlet container.

##Crawler Service
The crawler service is a simple implementation of a service that can render AJAX pages. It is designed to run on AppEngine but can be called by your application even if it runs on another servlet container. It is meant to be called by the crawler filter described above.

##Annotation
The annotation module combines a number of annotation processors that let you easily generate boilerplate code for events, dispatcher actions and their responses, and DTOs that would otherwise be tedious to reproduce.

##Localizer
At present, this component only offers the MergeLocales script to help organize the property files generated by GWT
localization tools. This is particularly useful when internationalizing UIBinder files, as mentioned in the [GWT documentation](https://developers.google.com/web-toolkit/doc/latest/DevGuideUiBinderI18n?hl=fr#Bonjour).

#Library Jar Descriptions

##MVP component
* `gwtp-mvp-client`
* `gwtp-clients-common`

##Dispatch component
* `gwtp-dispatch-client`
* `gwtp-clients-common`
* `gwtp-dispatch-shared` (server-side)
* `gwtp-dispatch-server` (server-side)
* `gwtp-dispatch-server-guice` (server-side, for Guice, GWTP 0.6+)
* `gwtp-dispatch-server-spring` (server-side, for Spring, GWTP 0.6+)

##Crawler component
* `gwtp-crawler` (server-side)
* `gwtp-crawler-service` (server-side, on the crawler service app)

##Annotation component
* `gwtp-processors`

The jars noted as _server-side_ need to be deployed on your server, the others are only needed for compilation or testing.

[gs]: gwtp/basicfeatures/Getting-started.html "Getting Started"
[av]: gwtp/communication/ "Action Validators"
